Date: 11 March 2025
--------------------
1. What is the purpose of git commit?
A) To save changes permanently in the remote repository
B) To stage changes for commit
C) To create a snapshot of staged changes in the local repository
D) To delete changes from the working directory

 To create a snapshot of staged changes in the local repository like cheaked point

2. Which command commits staged changes with a message?
A) git commit
B) git commit -m "Commit message"
C) git add -m "Commit message"
D) git push -m "Commit message"

B) git commit -m "Commit message"

3. What happens if you run git commit without -m?
A) Git throws an error
B) Git opens the default text editor for entering a commit message
C) The commit is created with a default message
D) It commits all unstaged changes

B) Git opens the default text editor for entering a commit message

4. How do you modify the message of the last commit?
A) git commit --amend -m "New message"
B) git commit -m "New message"
C) git add -m "New message"
D) git commit --edit

A) git commit --amend -m "New message"

5. What does git commit --amend do?
A) Creates a new commit
B) Modifies the most recent commit by adding new changes or updating the message
C) Deletes the last commit
D) Pushes the last commit

Modifies the most recent commit by adding new changes or updating the message

6. How do you commit all tracked changes (modified and deleted files) at once?
A) git commit -am "Commit message" // stages modified and deleted files, then commits them.
B) git commit -m "Commit message"
C) git commit --all
D) Both A and C
Both A and C

7. What does git commit -a do?
A) Commits all changes, including untracked files
B) Stages and commits all tracked files (excluding untracked files)
C) Commits only new files
D) Pushes changes to the remote repository

 Stages and commits all tracked files (excluding untracked files)

8. How do you check the history of commits?
A) git log
B) git status
C) git commit --history
D) git branch -log

 git log

9. What happens if you commit without staging changes first?
A) Git throws an error
B) Only previously staged changes are committed
C) All changes in the working directory are committed
D) Git automatically stages and commits all changes

Only previously staged changes are committed

10. Which command allows you to edit a specific previous commit?
A) git commit --amend
B) git rebase -i HEAD~n
C) git commit --edit
D) git reset --hard

git rebase -i HEAD~n